Name
In France, the name of the pain au chocolat varies by region:	*In the Hauts-de-France and in Alsace, the words  are used.
*In central France, in southern France and in Paris,  is used.
*In southwestern France (Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Occitanie) and in Quebec, the word  is used.	In Belgium, the words  are also used.	They are often sold in packages at supermarkets and convenience stores, or made fresh in pastry shops. 	* In Morocco, Lebanon, Tunisia, Algeria, the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway, Ireland, Denmark and the United Kingdom, they are sold in most bakeries, supermarkets and cafés.
* In Germany, they are sold less frequently than chocolate croissants, but both are referred to as .
* In the United States and often English Canada, they are commonly known as "chocolate croissants".<ref>[http://onefoodguy.blogspot.com/2009/09/tuesdays-tasting-trader-joes-chocolate.html Tuesday's Tasting - Trader Joe's Chocolate Croissants]</ref>
* In the Netherlands, they are sold at most cafés, supermarkets and bakeries and are commonly known as a .
* In Belgium's Flanders region, they are sold in most bakeries, and referred to as . 
* In Portugal and Spain, they are sold in bakeries and supermarkets, as  (i.e., "Neapolitans").
* In Mexico, they are also most commonly found in bakeries and supermarkets, and are known as chocolatines.
* In El Salvador and Brazil, they are referred to .
* In Australia and New Zealand, they are commonly referred to as "chocolate croissants", and are sold freshly baked in most bakeries and supermarkets.